#labels Phase-Deploy
<pre>As of 5/16/09 these are the variables you can edit for a language file.  The text on the right is what will show up on the screen.


Specialthanksto = Special thanks to
t3Coverst = 3D Covers
AppLanguage = App Language
Areyousure = Are you sure?
AutoPatch = AutoPatch
Back = Back
BacktoHBCorWiiMenu = Back to HBC or Wii Menu
BacktoLoader = Back to Loader
BacktoWiiMenu = Back to Wii Menu
BootStandard = Boot/Standard
BothBoth = Both
Cantcreatedirectory = Can't create directory
Cancel = Cancel
Cantbeformated = Can't be formated
Cantdelete = Can't delete:
ClicktoDownloadCovers = Click to Download Covers
Clock = Clock
Continueinstallgame = Continue to install game?
ConsoleDefault = Console Default
Consoleshouldbeunlockedtomodifyit = Console should be unlocked to modify it.
ConsoleLocked = Console Locked
CorrectPassword = Correct Password
Couldnotinitializenetwork = Could not initialize network!
CouldnotopenDisc = Could not open Disc
CouldnotinitializeDIPmodule = Could not initialize DIP module!
CoverDownload = Cover Download
CoverPath = Cover Path
CoverpathChanged = Coverpath Changed
Coverpathchange = Coverpath change
Credits = Credits
DiscImages = Disc Images
DiscimagePath = Discimage Path
DiscpathChanged = Discpath Changed
Discpathchange = Discpath change
DiscDefault = Disc Default
Display = Display
Doyouwanttoformat = Do you want to format:
Doyoureallywanttodelete = Do you really want to delete:
Doyouwanttoretryfor30secs = Do you want to retry for 30 secs?
Downloadingfile = Downloading file:
DownloadBoxartimage = Download Boxart image?
Downloadfinished = Download finished
Error = Error !
BOOTERROR = BOOT ERROR
ErrorreadingDisc = Error reading Disc
ExitUSBISOLoader = Exit USB Loader GX?
InitializingNetwork = Initializing Network
InsertDisk = Insert Disk
InsertaWiiDisc = Insert a Wii Disc!
InsertaSDCardtodownloadimages = Insert an SD-Card to download images.
InsertaSDCardtosave = Insert an SD-Card to save.
InstallRenameandDeleteareunlocked = All the features of USB Loader GX are unlocked.
Installerror = Install Error!
Installagame = Install a game
Installinggame = Installing game:
Failedtoboot = Failed to boot:
FailedtomountfrontSDcard = Failed to mount front SD-card
FailedtosetUSB = Failed to set USB:
Failedformating = Failed formating
filesnotfoundontheserver = files not found on the server!
filesleft = file(s) left
FlipX = Flip-X
Force = Force
Youneedtoformatapartition = You need to format a partition
Format = Format
Formattingpleasewait = Formatting, please wait...
formated = formatted!
free = free
FreeSpace = Free Space
FullShutdown = Full Shutdown
GameID = Game ID
Games = Games
Gameisalreadyinstalled = Game is already installed:
GameRegion = Region
GameSize = Game Size
GoBack = Go Back
//GotoPage = Go to Page
HowtoShutdown = How to Shutdown?
Language = Language
Langchange = Language change
Left = Left
LikeSysMenu = Like SysMenu
LoadingincIOS = Loading in cIOS249
Lock = Lock
LockConsole = Lock Console
MP3Menu = MP3 Menu
Missingfiles = Missing files
Networkiniterror = Network init error
Neither = Neither
Next = Next
No = No
Nofilemissing = No file missing!
NoHDDfound = No HDD found!
NoSDcardinserted = No SD-Card inserted!
Nopartitionsfound = No partitions found
NoUSBDevice = No USB Device
NoWBFSpartitionfound = No WBFS partition found
NormalCovers = Normal Covers
Normal = Normal
NotaWiiDisc = Not a Wii Disc
NoUSBDevicefound = No USB Device found.
Notenoughfreespace = Not enough free space!
notset = not set
of = of
OFF = OFF
OfficialSite = Official Site
ok = OK
ON = ON
Parentalcontrol = Parental control
Partition = Partition
Password = Password
PasswordChanged = Password Changed
Passwordhasbeenchanged = Password has been changed
Passwordchange = Password change
PowerofftheWii = Power off the Wii
Prev = Prev
PromptsButtons = Prompts Buttons
ReloadSD = Reload SD
RenameGameonWBFS = Rename Game on WBFS
Restart = Restart
Return = Return
ReturntoWii = Return to Wii Menu
Right = Right
Rumble = Rumble
QuickBoot = Quick Boot
Save = Save
SaveFailed = Save Failed
Specialthanksto = Special thanks to
For = for
theUSBLoaderandreleasingthesourcecodethe = and releasing the source code
secondsleft = seconds left
SelectthePartition = Select the Partition
youwanttoformat = you want to format
settings = Settings
ShutdowntoIdle = Shutdown to Idle
ShutdownSystem = Shutdown System
Success = Success:
Successfullyinstalled = Successfully installed:
Successfullydeleted = Successfully deleted:
SuccessfullySaved = Successfully Saved
SystemDefault = System Default
ThemePath = ThemePath
ThemepathChanged = Themepath Changed
Themepathchange = Themepath change
Try = Try
Tooltips = Tooltips
Timeleft = Time left:
Unlock = Unlock
Uninstall = Uninstall
USBLoaderisprotected = USB Loader GX is protected
USBDevicenotfound = USB Device not found
VideoMode = Video Mode
VIDTVPatch = VIDTV Patch
Volume = Volume
Waiting = Waiting...
WaitingforUSBDevice = Waiting for USB Device
WidescreenFix = Widescreen Fix
WiiMenu = Wii Menu
WrongPassword = Wrong Password
Yes = Yes
YoudonthavecIOS = You don't have cIOS222
Japanese = Japanese
German = German
English = English
French = French
Spanish = Spanish
Italian = Italian
Dutch = Dutch
SChinese = SChinese
TChinese = TChinese
Korean = Korean</pre>