#labels Phase-Implementation
= Introduction =

This is the description for global config and all the settings in the Loader. <br>
All the settings that are being made in global settings are saved to <b>global_settings.cfg</b>. <br>
You can also edit the global_settings.cfg manual which is not needed though. 

The global settings are the standard for all games. The individual game settings are overriding the global settings.

= Details =

<b>The Options:</b>
   
  <b>PAGE 1:</b>

  * <b>Video Mode:</b> Choose in which video mode the games should be booted.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    video = 0...5

  * <b>VIDTV Patch:</b> Patch game to the System default region and boot it under that.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    video = 0...1

  * <b>Language:</b> Language in which the game should be booted.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    language = 0...10

  * <b>Ocarina:</b> Enable or disable Ocarina Cheats.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    ocarina = 0...1

  * <b>Display:</b> Show GameID or game region or none of them around the cover.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    sinfo = 0...3

  * <b>Clock:</b> Change between a Clock and the HDD Size information.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    hddinfo = 0...1

  * <b>Rumble:</b> Enable Wiimote Rumble when going over buttons.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    rumble = 0...1

  * <b>Volume:</b> Change Volume of background music and SFX.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    volume = 0...10

  * <b>Tooltip:</b> Enable or disable tooltips.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    tooltip = 0...1
    <br>    <br>

  <b>PAGE 2:</b>

  * <b>Password:</b> Set a password for locking the Loader. If no password is set the 
                     unlock mode is saved. Password can only be set in unlocked mode.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    password = text

  * <b>Boot/Standard:</b> Set the cIOS in which the Loader is booted. Also the standard 
                          for game booting. Can only be changed in unlocked mode.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    cios = 0...1

  * <b>Flip X:</b> Set in which directions the gamewindowprompt should be sliding in or 
                   out.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    xflip = 0...3

  * <b>Quick Boot:</b> Enable or disable gamewindowprompt with spinning discs and boot 
                       game directly on only one click.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    qboot = 0...1

  * <b>Prompts & Buttons:</b> Enable or disable widescreen fix for buttons and prompts. 
                           This is stretching the prompt windows and buttons if disabled.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    wsprompt = 0...1

  * <b>Parentalcontrol:</b> Change the parental control. This option can only be changed 
                            when in unlock mode.
    global_settings.cfg entrace:
    <br>
    parentalcontrol = 0...3

  * <b>Cover Path:</b> Set the standard cover path where they should be downloaded too 
                       and where they are being loaded from.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    cover_path = path

  * <b>Discimage Path:</b> Set the standard discimage path for the spinning discs. This 
               is where they will be downloaded too and where they are being loaded from.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    disc_path = path


  * <b>Theme Path:</b> Set the standard theme path for your own themes. This is where 
                they are being loaded from.
    global_settings.cfg entrance:
    <br>
    <b>On Widescreen 16:9:</b>
    <br>
    wtheme_path = path
    <br>
    <b>On Normalcreen 4:3:</b>
    <br>
    theme_path = path