#summary Getting started with USB Loader GX

= Introduction =

Welcome to the Wiki for USB Loader GX. USB Loader GX is a USB loader for the Wii, and it's purpose is to allow playing your game backups from your USB drive. It is based off of Waninkoko's original USB loader, with a gui based off of libwiigui by Tantric. This loader has the look and feel of the original system menu for the Wii by Nintendo, and offers many powerful functions.

If you're looking for the newest updates to this project, visit the [WhatsNew What's New?] page. Google decided to remove the updates page from Google code, so here is a temporary work around. 

= Features =
 * Backup and play your Wii games using an external USB device.
 * Play your Gamecube games from SD card using DML (coming soon!) (big thanks to the DML team!)
 * Homebrew & Channel launcher: Launch you favorite homebrew apps and channels from within the loader.
 * Supported Hard Drive format: WBFS, FAT32, NTFS, Ext2/3/4
 * Supports multiple partitions at the same time
 * 4 different display modes: Game List, Game Cover Grid, Game Carousel, and Channel Mode (channel mode coming soon!). 
 * Display the banner animation from the Disc Channel (coming soon!)
 * Custom game sorting and advanced filtering (game title, game genre, favorites level, user defined categories, etc.)
 * Native widescreen detection/support
 * Multiple languages support
 * Supports custom themes you can make or download from inside the loader. (custom themes support images and sounds)
 * Supports all controllers (Wiimote, nunchuck, Gamecube controller, Classic Controller, etc.)
 * Internal update function: Update to the latest version from inside the loader (Requires active Wi-Fi connection)
 * [http://www.gametdb.com/ GameTDB]: Automatically renames all game titles correctly and retrieves game's details (developer, publisher, genre, year, rating, etc.)
 * Cover download: Download custom or original flat, 3D, and disc images
 * Play stats and add game to official Wii Message Board: shows you how many times you played the game
 * Supports Gamer tags: Send your last played game to websites to create a dynamic forum's signature.
 * Global Settings and individual game settings
 * NAND Emulation: Emulates your Wii internal memory and store the save games and channels to SD or USB (unlimited Wii memory space)
 * Alternative dol loading: most alt dols are automatically loaded when necessary
 * Ocarina support: Download and enable cheat codes for your games
 * Full parental controls




= Useful Links =
 * Find the latest svn revisions here: http://code.google.com/p/usbloader-gui/source/list
 * Browse or download the source: http://code.google.com/p/usbloader-gui/source/checkout
 * WBFS Managers: http://wiki.gbatemp.net/wiki/WBFS_Managers
 * cIOS installers?
  ** Download d2x here: http://code.google.com/p/d2x-cios/downloads/list
  ** and learn how to install here: http://code.google.com/p/d2x-cios/wiki/How_To_Install
  ** Or use ModMii: http://modmii.zzl.org/